# 22. Trying Harder: The Labs

##

Following the successful completion of the course material, you can access a number of challenge labs in the control panel. These labs consist of a number of interconnected machines and will require the mastery of several techniques taught throughout this course to fully compromise.

### 22.1. Real Life Simulations

Each challenge lab is designed as a self-contained black-box penetration test network that requires enumeration, a successful initial compromise, and a pivot to other machines within the lab. The end goal is the compromise of the entire challenge lab network.

Each machine in a given challenge lab contains a proof.txt file with a MD5 hash, which can be found in either the root folder of Linux machines or the Administrators desktop of Windows machines. For machines that require privilege escalation, a local.txt is also present in the appropriate low-privileged users folder.

Similar to the deployment design of module VMs in this course, the challenge labs are not shared with other users. Please note that a revert may take some time given the number of machines and their interdependencies.

To aid in research and development of custom attack vectors, a development machine (dev) is available for some of those tasks.

Take the time to work on these challenges and keep in mind that while different frameworks may make various steps simpler, remember the many benefits of using custom code as we have demonstrated throughout this course.

### 22.2. Wrapping Up

If you've taken the time to understand the course material presented in the course book and associated videos, and have tackled all the exercises, you'll enjoy the lab challenges.

If you're having trouble, step back and take on a new perspective. It's easy to get so fixated on a single problem and lose sight of the fact that there may be a simpler solution waiting down a different path.

Take good notes and review them often, searching for alternate paths that might reveal the way forward. When all else fails, do not hesitate to reach out to the student administrators.

For information related to the OSEP certification exam please refer back to the introductory module or review our exam guide.[1](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-300-9502/learning/trying-harder-the-labs-14691/trying-harder-the-labs-14949#fn-local_id_765-1)

Finally, remember that you often have all the knowledge you need to tackle the problem in front of you. Don't give up, and remember the "Try Harder" discipline!

1

(Offensive Security, 2020), [https://help.offensive-security.com/hc/en-us/articles/360050293792-OSEP-Exam-Guide](https://help.offensive-security.com/hc/en-us/articles/360050293792-OSEP-Exam-Guide) [↩︎](https://portal.offsec.com/courses/pen-300-9502/learning/trying-harder-the-labs-14691/trying-harder-the-labs-14949#fnref-local_id_765-1)
